[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
And this program will be a very
heart warming program for you.
After a four year battle with
that dreaded disease, cancer,
Anita Moorjani fell
into a coma and was
given just days to live.
As her doctors gathered
to try to revive her,
something magnificent
happened to her
and we're going to have
her tell that story.
Anita, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
>>ANITA MOORJANI:
Thank you so much.
>>NOORY: Let's go
back a little bit,
if it's not too painful for
you, to tell us what happened.
How did doctors
diagnose your cancer
and then how did
you react to them?
>>MOORJANI: So I was
dealing with lymphoma.
It started with just a
lump on my neck and over--
and it was diagnosed
as lymphoma.
At the time they diagnosed
it, it was stage two.
But over a period
of four years, I
tried many different
modalities to try and heal it.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MOORJANI: At first I was
against the chemotherapy
and I wanted to go
for alternative.
But the doctors kept pushing
me towards chemotherapy.
But everything I
tried wasn't working.
And I was so afraid
of this cancer.
I feared cancer.
I feared-- I feared the
treatments for cancer.
And I feared death.
So I was living in this
constant state of fear.
As I was trying all the
alternative modalities,
I was really paranoid
about what I was eating,
and what I was ingesting,
and what I was doing.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MOORJANI: It was like
a really fearful time.
And it felt as though things
would work for a little while
and then it wouldn't work.
And so the cancer progressed.
And it started in
2002, and by 2005, I
decided I'll go for
the chemotherapy.
And so when they
did the test on me,
they said that it's too late.
Even for the chemotherapy,
it's too late.
>>NOORY: Oh, gosh.
>>MOORJANI: And they gave
me the chemotherapy anyway.
But what most people said was
that this is just going to--
your body can't even handle it.
It's too weak.
What ended up happening, though,
is that I went into a coma.
But I just want to
describe at this point,
this was February 2006--
>>NOORY: OK.
>>MOORJANI: And the condition
of my physical body.
What had started out
as a lump on my neck,
now, because it had
spread and metastasized
throughout my lymphatic system,
I had tumors, some of them
the size of golf balls--
>>NOORY: Oh, my God.
>>MOORJANI: From the base of
my skull, all around my neck,
under my arms.
>>NOORY: It was in your
blood system, wasn't it?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
It was everywhere.
It was in my--
and the tumors were in my
chest and in all the way
down to my abdomen.
All around.
>>NOORY: Were they
all malignant?
>>MOORJANI: All malignant.
And at that point, also, my
lungs were filled with fluid.
They would develop
fluid, which had
to be drained every
two to three weeks,
and then they would
fill up with fluid.
>>NOORY: Or you'd get pneumonia.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>NOORY: Or that would get you.
>>MOORJANI: And I was breathing
with the aid of oxygen
because I was, like, out
of breath all the time.
My body stopped
absorbing nutrition,
so I weighed about 85 pounds.
>>NOORY: Oh.
>>MOORJANI: I was
like a skeleton.
>>NOORY: So you were near death?
>>MOORJANI: I was
literally near death
even before I went
into the coma.
And I was--
I couldn't walk.
So my mobility came in
the form of a wheelchair.
When I would lie down,
I would choke because
of the fluid in my lungs.
>>NOORY: Oh, my God.
>>MOORJANI: And so on
February 2, I went into a coma
because my organs shut down.
That was when the doctors
actually said to my family
that I won't even make
it through the night.
They said I won't even--
>>NOORY: You won't even revive?
>>MOORJANI: I won't even
revive from the coma.
I won't even make it
through the night.
But unbeknownst to
everyone around me,
while I was in the
coma, that was when
I felt that I had left my body.
>>NOORY: Tell me
that experience.
>>MOORJANI: So what
happened was that--
>>NOORY: Were you aware
you were in a coma?
>>MOORJANI: I was aware that--
I actually was aware that I
was dying, but not immediately.
I started to actually feel
like the pain was gone.
And so what happened
is literally the night
before I went into a
coma, I was feeling
in so much pain, so much
discomfort, so much fear.
Because I couldn't sleep.
If I slept, I
would start choking
and it would wake me up.
>>NOORY: It's horrible.
>>MOORJANI: It
was just horrible.
And then, I had been
fighting for four years.
Fighting the cancer.
Fighting to stay alive.
But I had reached a point
where it felt like this
wasn't worth fighting for.
I knew death couldn't
be worse than this.
So I felt as though
I just surrendered.
I just gave up.
I surrendered.
And I thought, take me.
Literally, I--
>>NOORY: You were ready to go?
>>MOORJANI: I was ready to go.
I said it's not worth
living like this.
I was ready to go.
I fell asleep when
I surrendered.
But I think from sleep
I went into this coma.
And the reason I know
I went into the coma
was because that's
when I left my body.
>>NOORY: So when you're in
this out of body experience--
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>NOORY: Your body's in a coma?
>>NOORY: You're floating above.
Are you looking at that body?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
I could see that body.
And yet, it didn't feel
like I was an entity.
It felt like I was bigger.
And it was like I had 360
degree peripheral vision.
>>NOORY: Did you think you
were dead at that point?
>>MOORJANI: I did.
>>NOORY: You did.
>>MOORJANI: I thought my
physical body was dead.
I could see my body.
I could see my family,
my mom, my husband.
I could see them gathered--
>>NOORY: Gathered around you--
>>MOORJANI: Gathered around.
>>NOORY: Crying and
everything else?
>>MOORJANI: Crying.
And the doctors.
And I heard the doctors
tell my husband that--
that she-- that her
organs have now shut down
and she's not going
to come out of it.
>>NOORY: Oh, you were dying.
>>MOORJANI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: You were-- the dying
process is under way for you.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
And that's what the doctors
were making clear to my family.
>>NOORY: How long were
you in this coma type?
>>MOORJANI: About 30 hours.
>>NOORY: Of human hours.
>>MOORJANI: Human hours.
It was 30 human hours.
>>NOORY: Our dear
friend, Raymond Moody,
who is an expert researcher
on near-death experiences,
was on the Gaia
series, "Legacy."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>RAYMOND MOODY:
Near-death experiences
are a common pattern
of conscious experience
that occurs to people who
are on the verge of death.
For example, in a
cardiac arrest from which
they are resuscitated.
And basically, they
consist of elements that
are common all over the world.
Not every person has
all of the elements.
But among the things
that people say
are that they hear the doctors
say something like, oh, my god.
He's dead.
Or we've lost her.
Which is very surprising
to them because they
say that I have never felt
so alive as when I heard
that doctor say I was dead.
Because from their
point of view,
they feel that they
distance themselves
from their physical
body and they
watch the scene of
the resuscitation
typically from the
point of view above it.
As this progresses, they
eventually wake up to the fact
that, oh, this must be
something to do with death.
And at that point, they enter
into states of consciousness
that, no matter how
articulate they may be,
they say there are
no words for it.
That it's ineffable
or indescribable.
They go through a passageway
into a beautiful light.
They feel comfort,
peace, and joy.
They meet relatives and friends
of theirs who have died.
And they go through
panoramic memory,
in which everything
they've ever done
is displayed around
them in a sort
of holographic
three-dimensional panorama.
And they come back
from these experiences
with a total new take
on life, thinking
that the most important thing
we can do while we're here
is to learn how to love.
And saying that they have
no more fear of death
because they feel that
death is just a transition
into some other reality.
>>NOORY: Is that what
happened to you Anita?
>>MOORJANI: Yeah.
It's amazing when I hear that.
I think, wow.
>>NOORY: You get chills?
>>MOORJANI: I get chills
because it's like, wow, somebody
understands me.
And I've met Raymond
Moody and it was--
>>NOORY: Great guy.
>>MOORJANI: Yeah.
He's such a great guy.
But when I was out of my body,
I felt so free and light,
and all the pain was gone,
and the fear was gone.
It just felt amazing.
And I felt powerful
and magnificent.
And I could see my physical
body lying on the bed,
and my physical body looked
so small and insignificant
compared to how I was feeling.
>>NOORY: When you
were in this state,
did you notice other
entities around you
or anything like that?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
I felt I was greeted
by other entities who--
it felt like they were there
to help me to cross over.
And I didn't recognize all
of them, but one of them
was my dad who had passed
away 10 years prior to that.
And it was really amazing
connecting with my dad.
Because when I was
growing up, I had
a very turbulent
relationship with my dad.
But here on the other
side, all I felt from him
was pure, unconditional love.
>>NOORY: That's dramatic.
>>MOORJANI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: In that
state, these 30 hours
that you were in,
what did you learn
when you finally came back?
And tell me about that
experience being rammed back
into your body.
How did that happen?
Somebody call you?
Somebody send you?
What happened?
>>MOORJANI: My dad sent
me back from that side.
He told me it wasn't my time.
He said that I still had gift--
I had things to do.
He said I had not
completed my purpose
and I needed to go back.
>>NOORY: Ah, interesting.
>>MOORJANI: But I didn't want
to come back because it was so--
>>NOORY: It's bliss, isn't it?
>>MOORJANI: I mean, it
was bliss and my body
was dying of cancer.
>>NOORY: Who wants to be
put back into that, right?
>>MOORJANI: Exactly.
But that's when I started
to learn the lessons.
I realized that we are
much more powerful than we
have been led to believe.
It's almost like it's been
conditioned out of us when
we're in the physical.
And I realized my dad--
it was like my dad wanted
me to know that now that you
know the truth of who you
really are, you need to go back
and live your life fearlessly
and your body will
heal dramatically.
>>NOORY: So when you come
back into this stage four
cancer-riddened body--
>>MOORJANI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: How did you feel?
And did you come out
of the coma at all?
>>MOORJANI: So I
came out of the coma,
literally I started
coming out of the coma.
What it felt like in
linear or human time,
it felt like that as soon as I
made the decision to come back,
it felt like I came out of the
coma within minutes after that.
And as I came out--
>>NOORY: But still
with stage four cancer?
>>MOORJANI: Still with
stage four cancer.
So my body was critical.
But as I opened my eyes,
and my family was there,
and my brother had
flown in from India
because he heard I was
dying, and so he codified.
>>NOORY: Of course.
>>MOORJANI: Exactly.
So he was there.
And I just started
saying to my family,
I said, I'm not going to die.
It's not my time.
Dad is here.
Dad told me.
They all thought
I was delirious.
And so they called the doctor.
And the doctor said, yes, she's
just-- it's just the drugs.
It's messing with her mind.
>>NOORY: She's close to going.
>>MOORJANI: She's
close to going.
Exactly.
So he made sure to not
let my family raise
their hopes because he was
so sure that I was dying.
>>NOORY: Well, you already
proved them wrong on one thing.
When they said you'd never
come out of the coma.
>>MOORJANI: Exactly.
>>NOORY: And you'd be dead.
You were still alive and
you came out of the coma.
>>MOORJANI: I came
out of the coma,
but he was still there
saying, she's delirious.
She's delirious.
She's still critical.
But what blew him away, was
then I said to this doctor,
I said, didn't you take
fluid out of my lungs
at 5:00 this morning?
Aren't you the one who did that?
And he said, how do you know?
You were in a coma.
I was able to see and hear
everything that was going--
>>NOORY: As Raymond
Moody pointed out.
>>MOORJANI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: You feel those things.
>>MOORJANI: And as I started
to like recall, tell them.
Tell everyone the
conversations that
were taking place, that's
when they started to realize
something had happened.
But what happened is
that after four days,
I was wanting to sit up.
I was wanting to take out
the tubes that were in me.
>>NOORY: Were you
feeling better?
>>MOORJANI: I was
feeling better.
I was still very weak.
I still--
>>NOORY: And still stage four?
>>MOORJANI: So in four
days, they took tests.
Actually, by the fifth
day, they took tests
and they found that the
tumors had shrunk by 60%.
>>NOORY: In four days?
>>MOORJANI: In four days.
And they could not explain it.
The doctor who was
treating me was blown away.
He said, I don't even know
what to write in your medical--
>>NOORY: They've never
seen anything like this.
>>MOORJANI: They
thought they'd made
a mistake with the records.
They thought they had brought
the wrong medical records
to compare.
>>NOORY: Do they
think the mistake was
made on the first time when
they called you stage four
or on the second time when
they said it was gone?
>>MOORJANI: Well,
actually, what happened--
>>NOORY: In remission.
>>MOORJANI: So what happened
was that when-- they send me
to the lab, to the radiologist.
And so the radiologist doesn't
have a relationship with me
and he's just taking the test.
>>NOORY: He's just
looking at numbers.
>>MOORJANI: And he's
just looking at numbers.
And he's-- and I could hear him
calling my oncologist and said,
have you sent me
the right records?
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MOORJANI: Because when
he made the comparison,
he said this is not--
>>NOORY: This is not
a stage four person.
>>MOORJANI: Exactly.
>>NOORY: And were
you alert then?
>>MOORJANI: I was alert.
I was-- and over the days,
over the next three weeks,
my work was to build
up my physical stamina.
Because I now had to build my
strength up and my muscles up
again.
>>NOORY: Anita, did
you know what was
happening to you at this point?
The fact that the cancer was
going away, was in remission.
You were getting better.
Were you aware that
you were doing this?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
Because what
actually happened is
that as soon as I came out
of the near-death state,
I understood that cancer is not
a physical disease of the body.
It was, for me, it was a
disease from the level of my,
I guess, from my soul
and my consciousness,
where I had never allowed
myself to express myself.
I'd never known how
smart our bodies were.
>>NOORY: That's dramatic.
>>MOORJANI: Yeah.
And so now I knew that
I was already healed,
but my body just
had to catch up.
>>NOORY: Dr. Randy Veitenheimer
was on "The Quantum Effect",
the Gaia show, talking
about the aspects of death.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>RANDY VEITENHEIMER:
Your physical existence
is a form of the formless in
Chinese philosophy and Taoism.
Your death is the loss
of the physical form,
but not the essence of
you, which is life itself,
our being.
Life is an expanding
state of awareness.
Death is an evolving
expression of growth.
Both are marked by emergence,
life into physical awareness,
and death into universal
or infinite awareness.
Life is an imminent
state of being.
Death is a transcended
So it is zero reality.
So we go from a transcendent
non-physical state
of being-ness,
basically essence,
to an imminent and present
state of existence physicality.
And then we go back to a
transcendent non-physical state
of being.
You are always in a state of
being and a state of beginning.
It doesn't change.
>>NOORY: What do you think
of what he just said, Anita?
>>MOORJANI: Oh,
it rings so true.
>>NOORY: It does.
>>MOORJANI: It does, totally.
And it's beautiful to see--
to see things like that
kind of endorse or that
say what I'm trying to say,
and he puts it very elegantly.
>>NOORY: Now today, what would
you say about your cancer?
Gone?
>>MOORJANI: Gone.
>>NOORY: 100%?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
Because five weeks
after I came out
of the near-death
experience, the doctors
tried to do every test
possible because they
couldn't believe it was gone.
They could find no trace of it.
They even said, cancer
doesn't disappear like that.
We got to keep looking
till we find it.
But five weeks after the
NDE, they sent me home
to live my life cancer-free.
That was in March of
2006 and today it's 2019.
>>NOORY: What did they say?
What did they think
when they realized
that you've gone
from a stage four
to zero in a matter of weeks?
>>MOORJANI: So there was
a lot of mixed reactions.
Most of them were really
shocked and blown away
and didn't know
what to make of it.
>>NOORY: Were they
arguing with each other?
>>MOORJANI: They were.
>>NOORY: You gave us the
wrong report or something?
>>MOORJANI: They
were wondering even
like when they first staged it.
But the thing is, even
the staging of it,
it was a progression.
I had had so many
tests in the four
years since being diagnosed.
So they couldn't
argue with that.
There were different
doctors that had treated me.
>>NOORY: And they all
said the same thing.
>>MOORJANI: And they'd
all said the same thing.
And one of the
doctors, my oncologist
at that time, I shared
with him that I had the NDE
and he completely believed me.
He said, you're not the only--
you're not the first person I've
heard something like this from.
What was interesting was that--
then, because people
started talking about me
and I became a little
bit of talk of the--
>>NOORY: A little
myth and legend?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
A bit of a legend in
the city where I lived.
And so then newspaper came
and did an interview on me,
a journalist interviewed me.
And then she said to me,
would your oncologist
back you up if I
interviewed your oncologist?
And I said, sure, he will.
He completely believed me.
He knew what happened.
>>NOORY: Of course.
>>MOORJANI: But when she
interviewed my oncologist,
he didn't completely back me up.
He sort of--
>>NOORY: He was afraid
of public ridicule.
>>MOORJANI: He was afraid
Since then, people
have said to me
that if he was
seen as a quack, he
would have had his license,
his medical license, revoked.
>>NOORY: What was
his excuse, though?
What did he say?
He had to admit it was gone.
>>MOORJANI: Oh, he
admitted it was gone.
He admitted it was a
spontaneous remission
and that I was
lucky to be alive.
But the-- everything
I attributed it to,
he said it was my mind.
He didn't think that I had
experienced what I experienced.
>>NOORY: He's saying that
there's a medical reason why
your body fought this off.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>NOORY: It doesn't
happen in every case.
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>NOORY: But it happened.
And the fact that you had
a near-death experience,
and it's something mystical
that helped heal you--
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>NOORY: He wasn't
going to go there.
>>MOORJANI: He wasn't
Even though he could not
explain how it disappeared.
Other oncologists who were
not related to my case,
who later studied
my medical records,
said that whichever
way they look at it,
I shouldn't be alive.
Because there was no way
those billions of cancer cells
could have left my
body so quickly.
>>NOORY: Do you have
any idea how you
got this in the first place?
>>MOORJANI: How
I got the cancer?
Yes, I do.
I feel that-- so it goes
a little bit to a lot
of the things that
I learned while,
or what I realized in that
state of being in the NDE,
I realized that actually--
I think all of us, but
certainly a lot of us,
we're actually not just five
sensory physical beings.
We are more than that.
We are-- I'll call it
six sensory beings,
for want of a better
term, because there's
no language to describe this.
But we know our soul
comes here with a calling
and we know there's
something more to life
than just this physical
life, this world we live in,
this competitiveness
dog-eat-dog world.
Actually, internally, our soul
knows there's something more.
>>NOORY: Sure does.
>>MOORJANI: But we suppress it.
Because we're afraid
that if we explore it,
we're termed as being crazy
or woo-woo or whatever.
Now, I always knew there
was something more,
but I always suppressed it.
What I realized was that
because I had always
suppressed who I
am, I had literally
suppressed my own soul.
But with me, it was--
I mean, not everybody
gets cancer.
But with me, there was a
lot more going on than that.
Because a lot of
it was because--
in my case, to do with,
maybe, my culture,
with being an Indian woman.
There was a lot of
gender disparity.
I had always made myself small.
I had always dimmed my light.
And I was-- in the culture
I grew up in, a woman's--
a woman's worth, her value,
is dependent on how valuable
she is to the men in her
community, in her life.
So the smaller
you make yourself,
the more you are rewarded.
And so I had always wanted
to do and be something more.
I'd always wanted to be
independent, but I could--
I'd always had to squash myself.
And so it was a lifetime
of suppressing myself,
and being a people
pleaser, and a doormat.
And it was only when I
was on the other side
that I realized I wasn't
supposed to do that.
That I have a lot to share.
That I'm supposed to
shine my light brightly.
>>NOORY: You've got a
great story to tell people.
What do you think
caused the remission?
Now that you look back.
>>MOORJANI: The realization
that actually we are, all of us,
are more powerful than
we realize, including me.
I had made myself so
small and insignificant
to the point of being invisible
that my body was crying out
and that's why it
manifested disease.
And I didn't listen to it so
it kept manifesting disease.
But all of us are stronger and
more powerful than we believe.
Our bodies are capable
of more than we have
been conditioned to believe.
It's almost like-- it feels to
me, this is just my opinion--
it feels like we've
been dumbed down.
And I know doctors are great
and the doctors I've dealt with
were wonderful people, but I
think that our medical paradigm
has dumbed down what our bodies
are actually capable of doing
and doesn't take into
consideration that we're not
just--
we're not just three
dimensional physical bodies.
We are a lot more than that.
And what determines
our health is actually
more than just your
medical condition.
It's your soul, your calling.
It's your reason for living.
The more passion you have for
life, the healthier you are.
>>NOORY: What do you think
your doctors are saying
behind closed doors now,
or at a dinner table
with friends, about you?
>>MOORJANI: Oh, they
know it happened
and they're questioning things.
I had one of the doctors
who was treating me,
not the one that threw me
under the bus in the interview,
but another one who was
treating me all the way through.
He contacted me several
months ago and he said,
I just need to tell you that
ever since your experience,
I have never--
he said it is completely
changed the way that I
practice medicine.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>MOORJANI: And
he said, however,
I wasn't ready to completely
embrace it at that time
because I would have
to throw out everything
I learned in medical school.
He said he actually went through
a traumatic time of his own
trying to reconcile everything.
Because once he saw my
experience, you know,
it kind of opened
his eyes or his mind,
he started seeing more
and more things like that.
>>NOORY: Sadly, Anita,
not everybody gets healed.
Not everybody has a
success story that you had.
Why you and not them?
>>MOORJANI: So the first
thing I want to say
is that death is not a failure.
People who pass on, if it's
their time, it's their time.
But also maybe at the
time, even if they
get a glimpse of
the other side, I
don't blame them for
wanting to stay there.
It doesn't mean they don't
love the people here enough
to not come back,
but it could mean
that they can complete
their purpose in a bigger
way from that state, that
state of transcendence,
because death is a
state of transcendence.
If people have lost a
loved one, maybe they're
the ones who are the lucky
ones, and me, who got sent back,
maybe I'm the unlucky one.
>>NOORY: Maybe.
>>MOORJANI: And maybe they're
more transcended than I am.
Maybe they've completed
their work here.
>>NOORY: Do we all
have this ability
to heal ourselves from within?
In your opinion?
>>MOORJANI: In my
opinion, I believe we do.
Unless it's our time
to pass, or unless we
want to go over there because we
feel we can do more from there.
But I think that if
we still have work
to do here, yes, absolutely.
I believe our bodies are
far, far more powerful
and has this really
strong ability
to heal more so than
we've been led to believe.
>>NOORY: Dr. Joe
Dispenza of course,
is an expert on this
area of self-healing
and I had a chance to interview
him on "Beyond Belief."
>>JOE DISPENZER: Can
you teach your body
emotionally what that
future is going to feel
like before it's made manifest?
That means you can't
wait for your healing
to feel gratitude and wholeness.
You can't wait for
your wealth to feel
abundance and worthiness.
You can't-- you can't wait for
the mystical moment to feel
awe.
That's the old model of
reality of cause and effect.
That's Newtonian physics.
But the new model of reality,
the quantum model of reality,
is about causing an effect.
Which means the moment you start
feeling gratitude and whole,
your healing begins.
The moment you start
feeling worthy and abundant,
you're generating wealth.
The moment you're
in awe of life,
you're going to have
a mystical experience.
So then, your body is
your unconscious mind.
It does not know the difference
between an actual experience
in your life that creates
an emotion and an emotion
that you can create
by thought alone.
So the body is believing it's
living in that future reality
in the present moment.
And what's the
significance of that?
As I said, the latest
research in genetics
says genes don't create disease.
It's the environment
that signals
the gene that creates change.
Well, if the end product of an
experience in the environment
is an emotion, the moment you
embrace an elevated emotion,
you're signaling the gene
ahead of the environment.
And what do genes do?
Genes make proteins.
And what are proteins
responsible for?
The structure and
function of your body.
And the expression of proteins
is the expression of life.
And if you keep knocking on
that genetic door over and over
again, you're going to
begin to up-regulate
the genes for health,
and you're going
to down-regulate the
genes for disease,
and all of a sudden you're
going to wake up in your dream
and realize that you're
a different person.
And the personality now that had
the disease is no longer you.
>>NOORY: Were you a person
who would supplement and take
vitamins, and minerals,
and things like that?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
I was someone who was paranoid.
I truly believed that my
body needed intervention all
the time to keep it healthy.
And if I missed a
dose of supplements,
I would get paranoid.
That's the person I used to be.
>>NOORY: I'm the same way.
>>MOORJANI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: It's a regimen
for me every morning.
>>MOORJANI: But the message
we're sending our bodies when
we're like that, we're sending
a message that my body isn't
capable of being healthy
without me constantly
being rigorous about
staying on top of my health.
>>NOORY: Well, look at
your body as a car, Anita.
And you may have
a beautiful car,
but if you run it
into the ground,
it's not going to
do you any good.
So you maintain it.
You take care of it.
You change the oil.
You change the air filter.
You tune it up once in a while.
And I think that's the same
way with the mental condition
of your body and
supplementation.
It's not a matter of you should
heal yourself without it.
I think it just enhances
your ability to do that.
>>MOORJANI: I agree
to a certain extent.
Because I actually--
>>NOORY: Don't throw
me under the bus.
Not like the doctor did to you.
[LAUGHS]
>>MOORJANI: I'm going
to agree with you.
And yet I'm going to offer
you an alternative and see.
I agree that we need
to maintain our bodies.
We need to take care of it.
We need to love and cherish it.
Because our body
is actually here
as a channel for our higher
self, or soul, or divine,
or whatever we want to call it.
So it's a channel.
You want to take
care of this channel.
But here's where we go
a little bit overboard.
We become paranoid
about our health.
That's not healthy.
>>NOORY: Some people do.
>>MOORJANI: Some people do.
But as a culture, we've
started to become that way.
If you look at--
if you look at the media, or
if you look at the internet,
if you research
anything, you find all
this contradicting information.
And the way it's written, the
way it's presented to you,
is presented in a
very fearful way.
If you don't do this,
you're going to get cancer.
This causes cancer.
That causes cancer.
So you have to take
all these supplements.
That was me before I got cancer.
I was doing everything I
could to prevent cancer,
but where was my focus?
My focus was on disease.
My focus was not on living
life and maintaining
my body from a place of
love and passion for life.
>>NOORY: Yet you cured
yourself, and I'm not
sure you actually knew what you
were doing to cure yourself.
And I'm not saying this
derogatorily, at all.
>>MOORJANI: Oh, I understand.
>>NOORY: When you came out of
the coma, your life changed.
Your body changed.
The cancer started going away.
I don't think you
consciously understood,
I'm going to just think
about this and heal myself.
>>MOORJANI: No.
>>NOORY: This just
happened for you.
>>MOORJANI: It did just happen.
In all fairness,
it did just happen.
But if I were to
reverse engineer it,
I can compare the person that
I used to be before the cancer
to the person I became after
the near-death experience.
>>NOORY: Is there
a big difference?
>>MOORJANI: Huge difference.
Huge difference.
The person I used to be was
a fearful, paranoid person
who gave my power
away to everybody.
The person that came out of
the near-death experience
was someone who knew.
And even though it sounds like
I healed my cancer myself,
it's not this physical
body that healed it.
I realized that I am much
more than my physical body.
>>NOORY: What if
you had helpers?
What if you had guardian angels?
>>MOORJANI: I did.
>>NOORY: People that were
mystical from the other side?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>NOORY: Who did this for you?
>>MOORJANI: That's
highly possible.
But again, I also believe
and, in fact, it is the case.
I was definitely helped by
the people on the other side.
But everybody has access to
people on the other side.
But we have not
allowed ourselves
to tap into our intuition.
>>NOORY: Well, I
was going to say,
how can we do what
you did without having
to die to get there?
>>MOORJANI: And that's
a great question.
And the reason I
share my story is
because I want people
to be able to do this
without having to die.
And one of the
ways I tell people
is to know that you are
actually a channel for something
far greater.
You are not just
a physical body.
You're something so much more.
Your physical body is
literally like just the tip
of an iceberg.
So just like an iceberg, the
tip that you can see is only 10%
of the iceberg.
Your physical body is
only 10% of who you are.
You need to get to
know the other 90%.
And when you get to
know the other 90%,
you allow that to actually
channel through you.
And when you get
to know that 90%,
that's when you start to take
care of your physical body
from the inside out as opposed
to from the outside in.
So when you research
information,
when you're in tune with all
of you, it's like the higher--
your intuition decides what's
right for you and what's not.
But as I mentioned, it
seems to me after the NDE,
it feels like everything
I was before was
a dumbed down version of who
I potentially could have been.
The near-death
experience, it's not
like I became someone
I'm not capable of being.
It showed me what I
am capable of being
and I was born
with this capacity.
But it was-- it was
conditioned out of me.
That's what it feels like.
>>NOORY: Could you teach
somebody how to do this or must
they experience something?
>>MOORJANI: I would be able
to share with them everything
from my reverse engineered
perspective, which
is what I try to do, and
when I speak on in my videos,
and what I wrote in my book.
And a lot of people
have felt helped by it.
They felt that it gives them
more confidence in their body.
Because one of the
biggest things that I
want people to know is that--
is that fear, like
when we feel fear,
when we feel fear
of our illness,
and we feel fear of
not having enough,
and the stress, and
the anger, all of this
contributes to actually
suppressing your immune system.
>>NOORY: Of course it does.
It's stress.
>>MOORJANI: It's stress.
But the problem is
that when you get
a diagnosis of a scary
illness, it adds to the stress.
So what I try and do with
people is I teach them
how to alleviate that stress.
When we alleviate
the stress and when
we alleviate the fear--
and that's a process.
That's the process
we try and work with
and I encourage medical
doctors, healers, teachers,
to help people to alleviate that
stress because that frees up
their immune system.
When your immune system
is not in survival mode,
you go into creative mode.
That's when you're most in
touch with your intuition.
>>NOORY: Must you be a
believer in the ability
to do this for it to work?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
It definitely helps
if you are a believer.
I think that it's OK to
be a healthy skeptic,
but it's but you need to
be an open healthy skeptic.
But if you are a total
non-believer, debunker,
who only believes in--
>>NOORY: A negative.
>>MOORJANI: Material,
and negative,
and only believes in
the material world,
then it would be very
hard for this to work.
>>NOORY: We used to have
a producer in St. Louis,
Anita, who, when I was doing
my "Night Hawk" local show,
and every day he'd walk in with
a black cloud over his head.
He'd go, this is going to
be a lousy day for me today.
I mean, before the
day even started.
And I'd say Howard, what
are you talking about?
He says, I just can feel it.
And you know what?
He had a lousy day.
>>MOORJANI: Of course he did.
>>NOORY: I think he
brought it onto himself.
How many people bring these
diseases onto themselves?
>>MOORJANI: I think
a lot of people do.
But at the same time, I
don't want them to feel
it's their fault.
It's not their fault.
But even though it's
not your fault--
>>NOORY: Maybe not directly.
>>MOORJANI: Not directly.
But when you become aware
that you're bringing it
onto yourself and how you're
bringing it onto yourself,
that's when you can really
be on the road to healing.
And so if I had to
explain-- and again,
words are not enough
to do this justice.
So I'm going to use words that
may sound a little bit woo-woo.
But anyway, if you
imagine and this
is how I understood it when
I was on the other side,
we're not just physical bodies.
So if you imagine that we
are actually energy bodies
or energy beings, being
expressed through the physical.
But what actually matters is
the energy, not the physical.
That's the more important part.
If your energy is weak,
your physical body is weak.
If your energy is strong,
your physical body is strong.
So the more you do
things that energetically
make you feel big and powerful,
your body will reflect it.
And so if you're someone who
is shining bright as an energy,
if you are someone who knows
I am here as a powerful being,
good things happen to me.
And when you feel,
like if you're in love,
your energy is big.
When you feel--
>>NOORY: It's like an aura
that just is expanding.
>>MOORJANI: Exactly.
It's like an aura expanding.
And if you feel that you're
destined for good things,
then your energy
expands accordingly.
If you know you're
powerful, your energy
expands accordingly.
That energy is what
feeds your body.
That is what fuels
it and gives it
that health and vibrancy
that actually then does
bring good things onto you.
>>NOORY: Do you remember the
"Star Trek" television series?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
>>NOORY: The Doctor Bones
would have this apparatus
that he'd wave over some sick
person, then they'd be fine.
>>MOORJANI: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Isn't that
a little bit of what
you've done by
taking your energy,
focusing it on certain parts
of your body, and curing it?
>>MOORJANI: Yes.
And although I'll admit,
just like you said,
I didn't know that's
what I was doing
and it's more in
hindsight, but yes.
And to me, I really feel
that medicine of the future
really needs to go more in
the direction of measuring
our energy and seeing where
we can expand or increase
our energy, or helping
us to do things that
expand our energy because
that is what will actually
heal our bodies.
>>NOORY: And I think
the route that you
took, the chemotherapy,
possibly radiation too as well?
>>MOORJANI: I only had chemo.
>>NOORY: Just the chemo.
I think that was the
smart thing to do,
but I would do it in combination
with many of the things we've
been talking about tonight.
Dr. Eben Alexander had
a near-death experience
and came back to talk about it.
>>EBEN ALEXANDER: I came from
my journey to see the hardships
and difficulties,
illness and injury,
are actually the
steppingstones for our growth.
It's what leads us into
kind of remembering
the connectedness, the
love of that creative force
for the creation,
which is basically
our relationship with our
very conscious awareness
and with that God force at
the core of the universe
that so many have
come to realize.
Not just through
near-death experiences
and other spiritually
transformative experiences,
but cultivating that through
a program of meditation
with a purpose of trying to
learn more about who am I?
Why am I here?
Where is this all going?
How can I influence the outcome?
And each and every one of
us plays a tremendous role.
In fact, it's one thing that I
try and portray to every soul
that I encounter, is
everyone is important.
There is no soul that
is unimportant in this.
And that includes a lot of the
naysayers and the doubters,
because they actually present
a very important viewpoint.
And from my point of view,
as I often say in my talks,
the best ally in this
journey of deep discovery
of trying to understand
the nature of consciousness
and existence, is a true
open-minded skepticism.
Doubt everything right
down to ground level.
>>NOORY: But have an open mind.
>>ALEXANDER: But have
a very open mind.
>>NOORY: Looking at people
like Eben Alexander,
and you could be up there
on one of our next shows
as a clip, what do you
do to tell somebody this
is what I did and I'm here?
What do you tell them?
>>MOORJANI: I would tell them
that it's really important
to actually value who you are.
It's really important to allow
yourself to be who you are,
be your authentic self,
express yourself fearlessly.
And it is it's
actually also really
important to listen
to your intuition
and to know that you
are much, much more
than just this physical being.
And I would also ask people
to work through any fears
or stresses to heal that.
Healing the fear of
illness is actually
more important than
healing the illness itself.
>>NOORY: I was going say are,
you afraid of dying anymore?
>>MOORJANI: No.
I'm not afraid of dying.
>>NOORY: You're not in a hurry.
There's no rush.
>>MOORJANI: There's no rush.
And I wouldn't encourage
people to go early,
but I'm not afraid of it.
They have nothing
to be afraid of.
And when we heal
our fear of dying,
we actually heal
our fear of living.
>>NOORY: Do you look forward
if that happens again?
>>MOORJANI: To death?
>>NOORY: To the other side?
>>MOORJANI: You know
what's interesting is
that I love my life now, more
than I did before the NDE.
I love it so much.
>>NOORY: You appreciate
it more, don't you?
>>MOORJANI: I
appreciate it more.
And so on the one
hand, I actually
look forward to every single
day in my life so much.
But I don't worry
about death at all.
I'm fine.
When the day comes, I know
I'll go with no regrets.
>>NOORY: What do you
think of somebody,
Anita, who just hates
people, and hates life,
hates their own life?
Isn't that sad?
>>MOORJANI: That's very sad.
I feel that they're
missing out on something.
And I do feel that if
somebody feels that way,
I feel that it's their
loss, but I would try--
I would if I was passing them
by, I would give them a hug,
or say hello, or try
and cheer them up.
>>NOORY: And those on the other
side, what do they want for us?
>>MOORJANI: They
actually want us to--
they want us to love more,
more than anything else.
There's one thing that's
really lacking in our planet.
And love, it sounds--
it's an overused word.
It's really overused.
And what Raymond Moody said
about not having the language,
that is so true.
Because there is something
that's so ineffable
that I felt on the other
side and it was so strong,
and I understood that
we could have it here.
And I feel that we're
so able to have it,
but yet there's a
lot of people here
that are trying to take
it away all the time.
And it feels like
that all the time.
And whenever, very often when
we try to share our experience,
it feels like there's people
who are trying to take it away.
And like Eben Alexander
said about skeptics,
skeptics have been great for me,
just like he said, because it's
made me stronger in my message.
>>NOORY: What would
you like viewers
who are watching this program
right now to take away
from this show?
>>MOORJANI: I would like
viewers to know that they
don't have anything to fear.
But the main thing
is that I would
like them to know that they need
to relax, and have more fun,
and find more joy in life.
They need to laugh more.
We've become a culture
or a race of people who
forgotten how to enjoy life.
We've forgotten how to have fun.
We've forgotten how to laugh.
That's actually more
important than anything.
And laughing and having
fun and finding your joy
is actually the best
medicine, even for illness.
>>NOORY: There's an old saying,
laughter is the best medicine.
>>MOORJANI: Yeah.
Isn't that interesting?
>>NOORY: And it's true.
>>MOORJANI: It is so true.
It's been overstated.
It sounds cliche, but it's
actually really, really true.
>>NOORY: Anita, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
I appreciate it.
>>MOORJANI: Thank you so
much for having me on.
>>NOORY: There you go.
A remarkable subject, a cancer
victim who was in stage four,
and came to remission.
And she's here to talk about it.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]